Add GCP vault in 2.8.1.3 (#4144)
Kong/docs.konghq.com: app/gateway/2.8.x/plan-and-deploy/security/secrets-management/backends/gcp-sm.md

---
title: GCP Secrets Manager
badge: enterprise
---

## Configuration

The current version of {{site.base_gateway}}'s implementation supports
configuring
[GCP Secrets Manager](https://cloud.google.com/secret-manager/) in two
ways:

* Environment variables
* Workload Identity

> To configure GCP secrets manager, the `GCP_SERVICE_ACCOUNT`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To configure GCP Secrets Manager, the `GCP_SERVICE_ACCOUNT`
```

environment variable must be set to the JSON document referring to the
[credentials for your service account](https://cloud.google.com/iam/docs/creating-managing-service-account-keys):

```bash
export GCP_SERVICE_ACCOUNT=$(cat gcp-my-project-c61f2411f321.json)
```

> {{site.base_gateway}} will use the key to automatically authenticate

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{{site.base_gateway}} uses the key to automatically authenticate
```

with the GCP API and grant you access.

To use GCP Secrets Manager with
[Workload Identity](https://cloud.google.com/kubernetes-engine/docs/how-to/workload-identity)
on a GKE cluster, update your pod spec so that the service account is

> attached to the pod. For configuration information, read the Workload
> Identity configuration
> [documentation](https://cloud.google.com/kubernetes-engine/docs/how-to/workload-identity#authenticating_to).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
attached to the pod. For configuration information, read the [Workload
Identity configuration
documentation](https://cloud.google.com/kubernetes-engine/docs/how-to/workload-identity#authenticating_to).
```

{:.note}

> > With Workload Identity, setting the `GCP_SERVICE_ACCOUNT` is not necessary.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> With Workload Identity, setting the `GCP_SERVICE_ACCOUNT` isn't necessary.
```

## Examples

To use a GCP Secret Manager
[secret](https://cloud.google.com/secret-manager/docs/reference/rest/v1/projects.secrets)
with the name `my-secret-name`, create a JSON object in GCP that
contains one or more properties:

```json
{
  "foo": "bar",
  "snip": "snap"
}
```

You can now reference the secret's individual resources like this:

```bash
{vault://gcp/my-secret-name/foo?project_id=my_project_id}
{vault://gcp/my-secret-name/snip?project_id=my_project_id}
```

Note that both the provider (`gcp`) as well as the GCP project ID
(`my_project_id`) need to be specified.

## Entity

> Once the database has been initialized, a Vault entity can be created

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once the database is initialized, a Vault entity can be created
```

that encapsulates the provider and the GCP project ID:

{% navtabs codeblock %}
{% navtab cURL %}

```bash

> curl -i -X PUT http://<hostname>:8001/vaults/my-gcp-sm-vault \

Reviewer: ```suggestion
curl -i -X PUT http://HOSTNAME:8001/vaults/my-gcp-sm-vault \
```

  --data name=gcp \
  --data description="Storing secrets in GCP Secrets Manager" \
  --data config.project_id="my_project_id"
```

{% endnavtab %}
{% navtab HTTPie %}

```bash

> http -f PUT http://<hostname>:8001/vaults/my-gcp-sm-vault \

Reviewer: ```suggestion
http -f PUT http://HOSTNAME:8001/vaults/my-gcp-sm-vault \
```

  name="gcp" \
  description="Storing secrets in GCP Secrets Manager" \
  config.project_id="my_project_id"
```

{% endnavtab %}
{% endnavtabs %}

Result:

```json

{
    "config": {
        "project_id": "my_project_id"
    },
    "created_at": 1657874961,
    "description": "Storing secrets in GCP Secrets Manager",
    "id": "90e200be-cf84-4ce9-a1d6-a41c75c79f31",
    "name": "gcp",
    "prefix": "my-gcp-sm-vault",
    "tags": null,
    "updated_at": 1657874961
}
```

With the Vault entity in place, you can reference the GCP secrets
through it:

```bash
{vault://my-gcp-sm-vault/my-secret-name/foo}
{vault://my-gcp-sm-vault/my-secret-name/snip}
```

> When using the Vault entity, the GCP project ID no longer needs to be
> specified to access the secrets.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When you use the Vault entity, you no longer need to specify the GCP project ID to access the secrets.
```

* Environment variables
* Workload Identity 

To configure using environment export the GCP service account variable: 

```bash
export GCP_SERVICE_ACCOUNT=SERVICE_ACCOUNT
```
{{site.base_gateway}} will automatically authenticate with the GCP API and grant you access. 

To use GCP Secrets Manager with [Workload Identity](https://cloud.google.com/kubernetes-engine/docs/how-to/workload-identity) on a GKE cluster, update your pod spec so that the service account is attached to the pod. For configuration information, read the Workload Identity configuration [documentation](https://cloud.google.com/kubernetes-engine/docs/how-to/workload-identity#authenticating_to).

{:.note}
> With Workload Identity, setting the `GCP_SERVICE_ACCOUNT` is not necessary. 

## Examples

To use a GCP Secret Manager [secret](https://cloud.google.com/secret-manager/docs/reference/rest/v1/projects.secrets) with the name `my-secret-name`. Create a JSON object in GCP that contains multiple key:value pairs:

```json
{
  "foo": "bar",
  "snip": "snap",
}
```

You can now reference the secret's individual resources like this: 

```bash

> {vault://gcp/my-secret-name/foo}
> {vault://gcp/my-secret-name/snap}

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
{vault://gcp/my-secret-name/foo?project_id=my_project_id}
{vault://gcp/my-secret-name/snap?project_id=my_project_id}
```

Reviewer 2: `?project_id` can also be ignored if `GCP_PROJECT_ID` env is set.

```

## Entity

The Vault entity can only be used once the database is initialized. Secrets for values that are used _before_ the database is initialized can't make use of the Vaults entity. You will need to provide {{site.base_gateway}} with the GCP Secrets Manager `project_id` in the request: 

{% navtabs codeblock %}
{% navtab cURL %}

```bash
curl -i -X PUT http://<hostname>:8001/vaults-beta/my-gcp-sm-vault  \
  --data name=gcp \
  --data description="Storing secrets in GCP Secrets Manager" \
  --data config.project_id="my_project_id"
```

{% endnavtab %}
{% navtab HTTPie %}

```bash
http PUT :8001/vaults-beta/my-gco-sm-vault name="gcp" \
  description="Storing secrets in GCP Secrets Manager" \

>   config.region="my_project_id" \

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  config.project_id="my_project_id" \
```

  -f 
```

{% endnavtab %}
{% endnavtabs %}

Result:

```json

{
    "config": {

>         "project_id": "project-last-hope"

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        "project_id": "my_project_id"
```

    },
    "created_at": 1657874961,
    "description": "Storing secrets in GCP Secrets Manager",
    "id": "90e200be-cf84-4ce9-a1d6-a41c75c79f31",
    "name": "gcp",
    "prefix": "my-gcp-sm-vault",
    "tags": null,
    "updated_at": 1657874961
}
```

> With the Vault entity in place, you can now reference the secrets. This allows you to drop the `KONG_VAULT_GCP_PROJECT_ID`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
With the Vault entity in place, you can now reference the secrets. This allows you to drop the `GCP_PROJECT_ID`
```
